#     Executive Summary 
---
###   OSS Policy System               

Open Source Software (OSS) is becoming increasingly prevalent in today's technological landscape.  While OSS provides a cost-and-time-effective alternative to in-house development from scratch, developers do not have carte-blanche to integrate OSS code within enterprise projects. The enterprise has developed a system for vetting OSS packages by scanning each OSS package for licenses used within that package, checking the NIST database for vulnerabilities, and finally, creating policy based on the findings. Such a system will help the enterprise avoid possible legal license usage ramifications and avoid using code deemed too insecure for enterprise applications and projects.

Prior to incorporating an OSS package in any enterprise projects, policy needs to be evaluated against license and vulnerability data for an OSS package.  This requires organizational changes such that if an OSS package has no recorded license and vulnerability data, the developer must upload that data.  Once data is uploaded, the manager has the new responsibility of creating policy based on that data. When evaluating OSS packages for which data already exists in the License and Vulnerability database, the developer needs to verify that the most recent vulnerabilities have been uploaded from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The developer also needs to ensure they are referencing the correct OSS package version, thereby maintaining accuracy in license data. Before being included in a project, the manager shall approve or disapprove the use of the OSS package by comparing against company policy. If no such policy exists, the manager shall create such a policy.

Fossology is the main tool that will be used to scan for licenses. Fossology is open-source software, using the GNU General Public License version 2 (GPL-2.0), or the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1.  As a matter of social responsibility, developers are encouraged to contribute to the Fossology GitHub repository.  Furthermore, participation in the Free Software Foundation and the Linux Foundation are highly encouraged for both developers and managers. Such contributions to these communities will eventually decrease the amount of necessary modifications to downloaded source code via incorporating important changes at the source: the community responsible for development of said code. 


